Docs: document UI rules event and @runtime (#110)
openhab/openhab-js: README.md

This library is included by default in the openHAB [JavaScript
binding](https://www.openhab.org/addons/automation/jsscripting/)

> - [openHAB Javascript Library](#openhab-javascript-library)

Author: https://github.com/openhab/openhab-js/pull/110/commits/023d2849aa996bdcbf016ab679786e6edc832d9a

      - [Exec Actions](#exec-actions)
      - [HTTP Actions](#http-actions)
      - [ScriptExecution Actions](#scriptexecution-actions)
      - [Semantics Actions](#semantics-actions)
      - [Things Actions](#things-actions)
      - [Voice Actions](#voice-actions)
      - [Cloud Notification Actions](#cloud-notification-actions)
    - [Cache](#cache)
    - [Log](#log)
    - [Time](#time)
      - [openHAB-JS extensions to JS-Joda](#openhab-js-extensions-to-js-joda)
    - [Utils](#utils)
  - [File Based Rules](#file-based-rules)
    - [JSRule](#jsrule)
    - [Rule Builder](#rule-builder)
      - [Rule Builder Triggers](#rule-builder-triggers)
      - [Rule Builder Conditions](#rule-builder-conditions)
      - [Rule Builder Operations](#rule-builder-operations)
      - [Rule Builder Examples](#rule-builder-examples)
    - [Event Object](#event-object-1)

## Installation

### Default Installation

By default, openHAB has fairly old javascript runtime (in MainUI `ECMA - 262 Edition 5.1` or `application/javascript`). In [community forum](https://community.openhab.org) many people also call this as "Nashorn engine".

This library is not compatible with this old runtime.

> Instead, this library is meant to be used with ECMAScript 2021+ rules (also known as `ECMAScript 262 Edition 11` or `application/javascript;version=ECMAScript-2021`). These rules created using files ([File Based Rules](#file-based-rules)) or MainUI ([UI Based Rules](#ui-based-rules)). 

Reviewer: I would write something like:

> Instead, this library is meant to be used with the ECMAScript 2021+ engine (also known as `ECMAScript 262 Edition 11` or `application/javascript;version=ECMAScript-2021`). Rules can be created using files ([File Based Rules](#file-based-rules)) or MainUI ([UI Based Rules](#ui-based-rules)).

Author: https://github.com/openhab/openhab-js/pull/110/commits/7cfd0822b42145bd1cd201aa646042087cc3914b

- [File Based Rules](#file-based-rules)
  - [JSRule](#jsrule)
  - [Rule Builder](#rule-builder)
  - [Event Object](#event-object-1)

## Installation

### Default Installation

> By default, openHAB has fairly old JavaScript runtime (in MainUI `ECMA - 262 Edition 5.1` or `application/javascript`). In [community forum](https://community.openhab.org) many people also call this as "Nashorn engine".
> 
> This library is not compatible with this old runtime.
> 
> Instead, this library is meant to be used with ECMAScript 2021+ engine (also known as `ECMAScript 262 Edition 11`, `application/javascript;version=ECMAScript-2021` or `jsscripting` addon). Rules can be created using files ([File Based Rules](#file-based-rules)) or MainUI ([UI Based Rules](#ui-based-rules)). 
> 
> By installing the openHAB [JavaScript binding](https://www.openhab.org/addons/automation/jsscripting/), a version of this library will be automatically installed and available to ECMAScript 2021+ rules by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the openHAB [JavaScript binding](https://www.openhab.org/addons/automation/jsscripting/), a version of this library will be automatically installed and available to ECMAScript 2021+ rules created using [File Based Rules](#file-based-rules) or [UI Based Rules](#ui-based-rules). 

By default, openHAB ships with an older JavaScript runtime based on the Nashorn JavaScript engine which is part of the standard JDK.  This is referred to as `ECMA - 262 Edition 5.1` or `application/javascript` in the Main UI.

*This library is not compatible with this older runtime.* 
```

See [openhab-js](https://openhab.github.io/openhab-js) for a complete list of functionality

### Event Object

> **NOTE**: Note that `event` object is different in UI based rules and File based rules! This section is only valid for UI based rules.

Reviewer: I would spell `File` in lowercase (`file`).
Maybe you could add a link to the documentation for the event in file-based rules.

Author: https://github.com/openhab/openhab-js/pull/110/commits/9315b918b593c1eca955ec1f6ddbc37e6843733e

When you use "Item event" as trigger (i.e. "[item] received a command", "[item] was updated", "[item] changed"), there is additional context available for the action in a variable called `event`.

This tables gives an overview over the `event` object for most common trigger types:

> | Property Name  | Type                                                                                                                 | Trigger Types                          | Description                                                                                                   |                        |     |

Reviewer: Can please remove that last empty column?

Author: https://github.com/openhab/openhab-js/pull/110/commits/9315b918b593c1eca955ec1f6ddbc37e6843733e

| `itemCommand`  | sub-class of [org.openhab.core.types.Command](https://www.openhab.org/javadoc/latest/org/openhab/core/types/command) | `[item] received a command`            | Command that triggered event                                                                                  | `receivedCommand`      |     |
| `itemName`     | string                                                                                                               | all                                    | Name of Item that triggered event                                                                             | `triggeringItem.name`  |     |
| `type`         | string                                                                                                               | all                                    | Type of event that triggered event (`"ItemStateEvent"`, `"ItemStateChangedEvent"`, `"ItemCommandEvent"`, ...) | N/A                    |     |

> Note that in UI based rules `event.itemState`, `event.oldItemState`, and `event.itemCommand` are java types (not javascript), and care must be taken when comparing these with javascript types:

Reviewer: Spell `java` uppercase (`Java`) and spell `javascript` as ``JavaScript` (two times).

Author: https://github.com/openhab/openhab-js/pull/110/commits/fb6bbf5f7f4b7ddcb308f4a1798ad3ff47f8853a

Scripts may include standard NPM based libraries by using CommonJS require.
The library search path will look in `automation/js/node_modules` in the user configuration directory.

> ### @runtime

Reviewer 2: So , i think this is super helpful, but it's also a lot to put in the "Scripting Basics" section which was meant to be more of a quick overview of commonly used features.  Is there somewhere else we can put this farther down?  My fear is that new users to this library will get a little overwhelmed with the large table of runtime objects and miss the other basics .

Reviewer: What about introducing a new section named like `Advanced Scripting` or `For Advanced Users` at the bottom of the README?

Author: I would respectfully disagree here.

As you know, the stuff from @runtime is available for basic use with the rules dsl and nashorn, and I would argue it is as commonly used/needed with ecmascript.

In my opinion you often need to access globals from there, and it is really hard to stay in pure js world without some sort of interaction with Java classes (QuantityType, ON, OFF, ZonedDateTime), would you not agree?

In fact, with my limited experience, you really need to pay attention to types since the comparisons work perhaps unlike one would expect (I would expect "dummy" == StringType("dummy") to equal True for example. Is this graalvm issue or just general javascript?)

Reviewer: You are totally right that that part mentions important points, but personally I would still consider it as advanced as the normal user should use openhab-js and not directly access the Java parts.

I think I am more than just a normal user and I have plenty of rules in JavaScript and I do not use @runtime anywhere as I do not need to, instead I exclusively use openhab-js to interact with the openHAB runtime.

Author: https://github.com/openhab/openhab-js/pull/110/commits/667da0817b8d584c30347d30451b4dafeadd1fc9

```

### Event Object

> **NOTE**: This section is only valid for File Based Rules. If you are using MainUI with jsscripting

Reviewer: This seems incomplete, I think you forgot something here.

I would write:

> **NOTE**: This section is only valid for file-based scripts/rules. If you use JS Scripting in MainUI, please refer to ...

Author: https://github.com/openhab/openhab-js/pull/110/commits/a49c8d9f526685048d7f64f6a1017ae48ef1e40c
